x/feemarket/spec/09_antehandlers.md, before:

<!--
order: 5
-->

# AnteHandlers

The `x/feemarket` module provides `AnteDecorator`s that are recursively chained together into a single [`Antehandler`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.43.0-alpha1/docs/architecture/adr-010-modular-antehandler.md). These decorators perform basic validity checks on an Ethereum or Cosmos SDK transaction, such that it could be thrown out of the transaction Mempool.

Note that the `AnteHandler` is run for every transaction and called on both `CheckTx` and `DeliverTx`.

## Decorators

### `MinGasPriceDecorator`

Rejects Cosmos SDK transactions with transaction fees lower than `MinGasPrice * GasLimit`.

### `EthMinGasPriceDecorator`

Rejects EVM transactions with transactions fees lower than `MinGasPrice * GasLimit`.
    - For `LegacyTx` and `AccessListTx`, the `GasPrice * GasLimit` is used.
    - For EIP-1559 (*aka.* `DynamicFeeTx`), the `EffectivePrice * GasLimit` is used.

::: tip
**Note**: For dynamic transactions, if the `feemarket` formula results in a `BaseFee` that lowers `EffectivePrice < MinGasPrices`, the users must increase the `GasTipCap` (priority fee) until `EffectivePrice > MinGasPrices`. Transactions with `MinGasPrices * GasLimit < transaction fee < EffectiveFee` are rejected by the `feemarket` `AnteHandle`.
:::

Commit message:

feat(ante, evm): set priority for eth transactions (#1214)
* Set priority for eth transactions

Set the tx priority to the lowest priority in the messages.

fix unit tests

code cleanup and spec

update spec

fix go lint

add priority integration test

add python linter job

add access list tx type

fix gas limit

remove ledger tag, so no need to replace hid dependency

fix earlier check

ibc-go v5.0.0-beta1

* fix pruned node integration test

* Update x/feemarket/spec/09_antehandlers.md

Co-authored-by: Federico Kunze Küllmer <31522760+fedekunze@users.noreply.github.com>

x/feemarket/spec/09_antehandlers.md, after:

<!--
order: 5
-->

# AnteHandlers

The `x/feemarket` module provides `AnteDecorator`s that are recursively chained together into a single [`Antehandler`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.43.0-alpha1/docs/architecture/adr-010-modular-antehandler.md). These decorators perform basic validity checks on an Ethereum or Cosmos SDK transaction, such that it could be thrown out of the transaction Mempool.

Note that the `AnteHandler` is run for every transaction and called on both `CheckTx` and `DeliverTx`.

## Decorators

### `MinGasPriceDecorator`

Rejects Cosmos SDK transactions with transaction fees lower than `MinGasPrice * GasLimit`.

### `EthMinGasPriceDecorator`

Rejects EVM transactions with transactions fees lower than `MinGasPrice * GasLimit`.
    - For `LegacyTx` and `AccessListTx`, the `GasPrice * GasLimit` is used.
    - For EIP-1559 (*aka.* `DynamicFeeTx`), the `EffectivePrice * GasLimit` is used.

::: tip
**Note**: For dynamic transactions, if the `feemarket` formula results in a `BaseFee` that lowers `EffectivePrice < MinGasPrices`, the users must increase the `GasTipCap` (priority fee) until `EffectivePrice > MinGasPrices`. Transactions with `MinGasPrices * GasLimit < transaction fee < EffectiveFee` are rejected by the `feemarket` `AnteHandle`.
:::

### `EthGasConsumeDecorator`

Calculates the effective fees to deduct and the tx priority according to EIP-1559 spec, then deducts the fees and sets the tx priority in the response.

```
effectivePrice = min(baseFee + tipFeeCap, gasFeeCap)
effectiveTipFee = effectivePrice - baseFee
priority = effectiveTipFee / DefaultPriorityReduction
```

When there are multiple messages in the transaction, choose the lowest priority in them.
